# Assignments General Guidelines

Assignments are submitted on Moodle.  Assignments will be due on
Sunday night.

I will usually give you example code in p5.js - I encourage you to use
that to do your compositions. But you may do the assignment in any
programming language and with any library or set of tools.  The only
requirement is *programming* you can't just submit a digital art
composition you made in a tool like Adobe Illustrator.  If you wish,
you could take something generated programmatically and tweak it in a
graphical editor but the bulk must be generated from code of some
sort.

You must submit both the source code and an easily accessible way for
me to view the art (e.g. link to interactive online experience, a
image, youtube hosted video etc).  If you use p5.js this is as simple
as a link to your Sketch.  If you use something else, just be sure I
don't have to compile something on my local system to see your art.

# Assignment 1: Color

Visual art is all about color but I think as programmers we often
don't feel confident in our color choices.  But you can do a lot with
color:

Interactive color explorer

https://editor.p5js.org/generative-design/sketches/B1ec55pyE

All the textbook sketches in the first chapter have to do with color.
To try them out and get inspired, look for stuff beginning with P1_ here:

https://editor.p5js.org/generative-design/sketches

But consider this one in particular:

https://editor.p5js.org/generative-design/sketches/rkHg99qayN

Note although there is some variation in color, we're not just picking
*random* colors from anywhere.  Lines 49-60 constrain the palette to
producing something the authors thought was pleasing.

What I'd like you to do is build a composition - could be a variation
of one of these existing sketches, could be something wholey new from
you.  The constraints are:

1. Color should be a major component
2. You should choose the colors yourself either to be pleasing, or to
   express some idea.  Include a brief discussion in the comments
   about why you chose the colors you did.
   
# Assignment 2: Shape/Grids

Build an art peace that utilized shapes or grids as a primary
component, potentially starting from one of these:

https://editor.p5js.org/generative-design/sketches/H1Klcc5ay4

https://editor.p5js.org/generative-design/sketches/HJ3gqcq6kN

https://editor.p5js.org/generative-design/sketches/ryklecq9Ty4

https://editor.p5js.org/generative-design/sketches/B1egg99cTy4

https://editor.p5js.org/generative-design/sketches/SkMel5qcakE

https://editor.p5js.org/generative-design/sketches/S1Qelc5qaJE

Try to make the shape/grid convey some idea or emotion - and include
what you were trying to capture in the comments.

Consider starting with the Daily Pages if you wish!

# Assignment 3: Mazes

Do some artistic composition featuring mazes.  You could

* Implement Wilson's algorithm

* Do a modification of my Aldous-Broder Algorithm.  For example there
  is a modification that prioritizes mazes with long passageways by
  always preferring to connect to unvisited nodes.  Just always start
  your walk on an existing path and connect to that or your maze won't
  be connected.
  
* Make some more artistic mazes.  You could block off certian squares
  to create a shape for example
  
Anything you like - with mazes.

# Assignment 4: Make a 1D Cellular Automata

...with at least 3 colors.  Could be a modification of my rules here:

https://editor.p5js.org/hewner/sketches/6HNHJxV9C

Could be an automata you find elsewhere and thinks look pretty so you
tweak it.  Could be one you design intentially.

You can program it directly, or there are some generator tools you can
find where you can enter your own rules.  Either is fine with me.  Just
be sure to include the picture that results.

# Assignment 5: Complex aggregate behavior

Create any artistic piece where there are "agents" that follow simple
rules to in aggregate produce the piece.  You could build a 2D
cellular automata with different rules (or hell, even recreate GOL if
you like).  You could start from the processing examples in the last
class.

Include a comment so I can understand how the simple rules generate
the complex picture.

# Assignment 6: The Mandelbrot

So this lecture I'd like you to focus on feeling your feelings a bit -
and it's a good time for it, approaching week 8.  So while you're
welcome to write code on any project you desire - for this assignment,
don't write code and instead explore the mandelbrot.  Use a tool that
calculates the mandelbrot locally like this one:

https://sourceforge.net/projects/quickman/

Find 4 images for me - as different as they can be.  But try to draw
them from a large set - spend your time exploring and reflect on what
you're seeing from an emotional perspective.

Beyond that, just give some time to yourself and permission to think
forbidden thoughts.  I'd encourage you to try the morning pages this
week, if you haven't done them before.

# Assignment 7: L-Systems

Build some sort of art using L-Systems, either coding a classic
l-system yourself (maybe based on this starting code?
https://editor.p5js.org/hewner/sketches/oZZ1D8r-F ).  Or by using an
existing L system generator like this one (
http://www.kevs3d.co.uk/dev/lsystems/# ).

